
# Chess Dictionary Validator

In this chapter, we used the dictionary value {'1h': 'bking', '6c': 'wqueen', '2g': 'bbishop', '5h': 'bqueen', '3e': 'wking'} to represent a chess board. Write a function named isValidChessBoard() that takes a dictionary argument and returns True or False depending on if the board is valid.

A valid board will have exactly one black king and exactly one white king. 
Each player can only have at most 16 pieces, at most 8 pawns, and all pieces must be on a valid space from '1a' to '8h'; that is, a piece can’t be on space '9z'. The piece names begin with either a 'w' or 'b' to represent white or black, followed by 'pawn', 'knight', 'bishop', 'rook', 'queen', or 'king'. This function should detect when a bug has resulted in an improper chess board.


# List Comprehension
https://realpython.com/list-comprehension-python/
List comprehension! 
## map()
so first, maps!
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-map-function/
[[map()]]:
"****map()**** function returns a map object(which is an iterator) of the results after applying the given function to each item of a given iterable (list, tuple etc."

You pass in a function and an iterable, and `map()` will create an object. This object contains the result that you’d get from running each iterable element through the supplied function
```
# Python program to demonstrate working
# of map.
 
# Return double of n
def addition(n):
    return n + n
 
# We double all numbers using map()
numbers = (1, 2, 3, 4)
result = map(addition, numbers)
print(list(result))

[2, 4, 6, 8]
```

## List Comprehension
back on subject!
List comprehensions are a third way of making or transforming lists. With this elegant approach, you could rewrite the `for` loop from the first example in just a single line of code:

```
>>> squares = [number * number for number in range(10)]
>>> squares
[0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81]
```
Rather than creating an empty list and adding each element to the end, you simply define the list and its contents at the same time by following this format:

`new_list = [expression for member in iterable]`

Every list comprehension in Python includes three elements:

1. **`expression`** is the member itself, a call to a method, or any other valid expression that returns a value. In the example above, the expression `number * number` is the square of the member value.
2. **`member`** is the object or value in the list or iterable. In the example above, the member value is `number`.
3. **`iterable`** is a list, [set](https://realpython.com/python-sets/), sequence, [generator](https://realpython.com/introduction-to-python-generators/), or any other object that can return its elements one at a time. In the example above, the iterable is `range(10)`.

