
### **Summary**

Even if you are an experienced computer user, you probably handle files manually with the mouse and keyboard. Modern file explorers make it easy to work with a few files. But sometimes you’ll need to perform a task that would take hours using your computer’s file explorer.

The os and shutil modules offer functions for copying, moving, renaming, and deleting files. When deleting files, you might want to use the send2trash module to move files to the recycle bin or trash rather than permanently deleting them. And when writing programs that handle files, it’s a good idea to comment out the code that does the actual copy/move/rename/delete and add a print() call instead so you can run the program and verify exactly what it will do.

Often you will need to perform these operations not only on files in one folder but also on every folder in that folder, every folder in those folders, and so on. The os.walk() function handles this trek across the folders for you so that you can concentrate on what your program needs to do with the files in them.

The zipfile module gives you a way of compressing and extracting files in _.ZIP_ archives through Python. Combined with the file-handling functions of os and shutil, zipfile makes it easy to package up several files from anywhere on your hard drive. These _.ZIP_ files are much easier to upload to websites or send as email attachments than many separate files.

Previous chapters of this book have provided source code for you to copy. But when you write your own programs, they probably won’t come out perfectly the first time. The next chapter focuses on some Python modules that will help you analyze and debug your programs so that you can quickly get them working correctly.


### **Practice Questions**

[1](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter10/#calibre_link-1515). What is the difference between shutil.copy() and shutil.copytree()?
The shutil.copy() method copies a single file, the shutil.copytree copies an entire directory and file contained within it.

[2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter10/#calibre_link-1516). What function is used to rename files?
the shutil.move method allows us to rename files

[3](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter10/#calibre_link-1517). What is the difference between the delete functions in the send2trash and shutil modules?
The shutil function irreversibly deletes files/folders 

[4](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter10/#calibre_link-1518). ZipFile objects have a close() method just like File objects’ close() method. What ZipFile method is equivalent to File objects’ open() method?