### **Summary**

Assertions, exceptions, logging, and the debugger are all valuable tools to find and prevent bugs in your program. Assertions with the Python assert statement are a good way to implement “sanity checks” that give you an early warning when a necessary condition doesn’t hold true. Assertions are only for errors that the program shouldn’t try to recover from and should fail fast. Otherwise, you should raise an exception.

An exception can be caught and handled by the try and except statements. The logging module is a good way to look into your code while it’s running and is much more convenient to use than the print() function because of its different logging levels and ability to log to a text file.

The debugger lets you step through your program one line at a time. Alternatively, you can run your program at normal speed and have the debugger pause execution whenever it reaches a line with a breakpoint set. Using the debugger, you can see the state of any variable’s value at any point during the program’s lifetime.

These debugging tools and techniques will help you write programs that work. Accidentally introducing bugs into your code is a fact of life, no matter how many years of coding experience you have.

---

# Practice Questions
[1](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1199). Write an assert statement that triggers an AssertionError if the variable spam is an integer less than 10.
```python
spam = [1, 2, 10, 20]
assert spam[-1] >= 10
# which would return true
assert spam[0] >= 10
# which would return
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
AssertionError

```


[2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1200). Write an assert statement that triggers an AssertionError if the variables eggs and bacon contain strings that are the same as each other, even if their cases are different (that is, 'hello' and 'hello' are considered the same, and 'goodbye' and 'GOODbye' are also considered the same).
Here we can probably use the .lower method with the assert
```python
assert eggs.lower() != bacon.lower()
```

[3](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1201). Write an assert statement that _always_ triggers an AssertionError.

```python
assert False, 'This is triggering.'
```

[4](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1202). What are the two lines that your program must have in order to be able to call logging.debug()?


```python
import logging
1. logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG, format=' %(asctime)s - %(levelname)s -  %(message)s')
```


[5](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1203). What are the two lines that your program must have in order to have logging.debug() send a logging message to a file named _programLog.txt_?

```python
import logging
logging.basicConfig(filename='programLog.txt', level=logging.DEBUG, format=' %(asctime)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s')
```


[6](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1204). What are the five logging levels?
debug, info, warning, error, and critical


[7](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1205). What line of code can you add to disable all logging messages in your program?
logging.disable() 
you can also dictate which level you want by including it as a parameter

[8](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1206). Why is using logging messages better than using print() to display the same message?
Because using print and deleting it allows for user error as well as easily disabling them.
That, and logging is meant to not be seen on the user side.

[9](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1207). What are the differences between the Step Over, Step In, and Step Out buttons in the debugger?
Clicking the Step In button will cause the debugger to execute the next line of code and then pause again
Clicking the Step Over button will execute the next line of code, similar to the Step In button. However, if the next line of code is a function call, the Step Over button will “step over” the code in the function
Clicking the Step Out button will cause the debugger to execute lines of code at full speed until it returns from the current function


[10](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1208). After you click Continue, when will the debugger stop?
Stop until the end of program or until it reaches a breakpoint.

[11](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter11/#calibre_link-1209). What is a breakpoint?
The line of code where the debugger pauses.