# Summary
It’s easy to forget to write input validation code, but without it, your programs will almost certainly have bugs. The values you expect users to enter and the values they actually enter can be completely different, and your programs need to be robust enough to handle these exceptional cases. You can use regular expressions to create your own input validation code, but for common cases, it’s easier to use an existing module, such as PyInputPlus. You can import the module with import pyinputplus as pyip so that you can enter a shorter name when calling the module’s functions.

PyInputPlus has functions for entering a variety of input, including strings, numbers, dates, yes/no, True/False, emails, and files. While input() always returns a string, these functions return the value in an appropriate data type. The inputChoice() function allow you to select one of several pre-selected options, while inputMenu() also adds numbers or letters for quick selection.

All of these functions have the following standard features: stripping whitespace from the sides, setting timeout and retry limits with the timeout and limit keyword arguments, and passing lists of regular expression strings to allowRegexes or blockRegexes to include or exclude particular responses. You'll no longer need to write your own tedious while loops that check for valid input and reprompt the user.

If none of the PyInputPlus module’s, functions fit your needs, but you’d still like the other features that PyInputPlus provides, you can call inputCustom() and pass your own custom validation function for PyInputPlus to use. The documentation at _[https://pyinputplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://pyinputplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)_ has a complete listing of PyInputPlus’s functions and additional features. There’s far more in the PyInputPlus online documentation than what was described in this chapter. There’s no use in reinventing the wheel, and learning to use this module will save you from having to write and debug code for yourself.

Now that you have expertise manipulating and validating text, it’s time to learn how to read from and write to files on your computer’s hard drive.


# **Practice Questions**
[1](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1098). Does PyInputPlus come with the Python Standard Library?
No

[2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1099). Why is PyInputPlus commonly imported with import pyinputplus as pyip?
to make it easier when executing the module

[3](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1100). What is the difference between inputInt() and inputFloat()?
Int = pass without decimal values
float = pass with decimal values

[4](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1101). How can you ensure that the user enters a whole number between 0 and 99 using PyInputPlus?
you could do:

```
# Question 4 in chapter 8 practice questions

  

import pyinputplus as pyip

import sys



  

while True:

    try:

        number = pyip.inputInt('Input numbers between 0-99: ', min = 0, max = 99)

    except ValueError as e:

        print(f'Bad input \n {e}')

    except KeyError as e:

        print(e)

    except Exception as e:

        print(e)

    else:

        print(f'Your number is: {number + 3}')
		#sys.exit()
```


[5](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1102). What is passed to the allowRegexes and blockRegexes keyword arguments?
arguments take a list of regular expression strings to determine what the PyInputPlus function will accept or reject as valid input.

[6](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1103). What does inputStr(limit=3) do if blank input is entered three times?
Limit the entry of input to 3

[7](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter8/#calibre_link-1104). What does inputStr(limit=3, default='hello') do if blank input is entered three times?
Defaults to hello if there is no input, then exits after the limit is reached.