
# **Project: How to Keep an Idiot Busy for Hours**

Let’s use PyInputPlus to create a simple program that does the following:

1. Ask the user if they’d like to know how to keep an idiot busy for hours.
2. If the user answers no, quit.
3. If the user answers yes, go to Step 1.

Of course, we don’t know if the user will enter something besides “yes” or “no,” so we need to perform input validation. It would also be convenient for the user to be able to enter “y” or “n” instead of the full words. PyInputPlus’s [[inputYesNo()]]function will handle this for us and, no matter what case the user enters, return a lowercase 'yes' or 'no' string value.

```
'YES!!!!!!' is not a valid yes/no response.  
Want to know how to keep an idiot busy for hours?  
TELL ME HOW TO KEEP AN IDIOT BUSY FOR HOURS.  
'TELL ME HOW TO KEEP AN IDIOT BUSY FOR HOURS.' is not a valid yes/no response.  
Want to know how to keep an idiot busy for hours?  
no  
Thank you. Have a nice day.
```

File == idiot.py

---

# **Project: Multiplication Quiz**

By setting the allowRegexes, blockRegexes, timeout, and limit keyword argument to pyip.inputStr(), you can leave most of the implementation to PyInputPlus

Let’s create a program that poses 10 multiplication problems to the user, where the valid input is the problem’s correct answer. Open a new file editor tab and save the file as _multiplicationQuiz.py_.

More about strings:
https://www.javatpoint.com/python-s-string-formatting#:~:text=Talking%20about%20%25s%2C%20it%20is,given%20string%20within%20another%20string.

%s inside of a string specifically used to perform concatenation of two or more strings together in Python. The %s allow us to format or place a string or numerical value within a given string. ==In simple language, the [[%s]] in Python is used to incorporate a given string within another string==.

from old notes:
the [[%s]] operator inside the string acts as a marker to be replaced by values following the string

