# Summary
T
ext is a common form of data, and Python comes with many helpful string methods to process the text stored in string values. You will make use of indexing, slicing, and string methods in almost every Python program you write.

The programs you are writing now don’t seem too sophisticated—they don’t have graphical user interfaces with images and colorful text. So far, you’re displaying text with print() and letting the user enter text with input(). However, the user can quickly enter large amounts of text through the clipboard. This ability provides a useful avenue for writing programs that manipulate massive amounts of text. These text-based programs might not have flashy windows or graphics, but they can get a lot of useful work done quickly.

Another way to manipulate large amounts of text is reading and writing files directly off the hard drive. You’ll learn how to do this with Python in [Chapter 9](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-32).

That just about covers all the basic concepts of Python programming! You’ll continue to learn new concepts throughout the rest of this book, but you now know enough to start writing some useful programs that can automate tasks. If you’d like to see a collection of short, simple Python programs built from the basic concepts you’ve learned so far, check out _[https://github.com/asweigart/pythonstdiogames/](https://github.com/asweigart/pythonstdiogames/)_. Try copying the source code for each program by hand, and then make modifications to see how they affect the behavior of the program. Once you have an understanding of how the program works, try re-creating the program yourself from scratch. You don’t need to re-create the source code exactly; just focus on what the program does rather than how it does it.

You might not think you have enough Python knowledge to do things such as download web pages, update spreadsheets, or send text messages, but that’s where Python modules come in! These modules, written by other programmers, provide functions that make it easy for you to do all these things. So let’s learn how to write real programs to do useful automated tasks.

# Practice Questions


[1](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1616). What are escape characters?
An escape character are characters that let you use formatting techniques inside of a string. An escape character consist of a `\` backslash followed by the character you want to add.
For example: `\n` is newline /line break
[2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1617). What do the \n and \t escape characters represent?
n - like break (enter)
t - tab (tab!)
[3](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1618). How can you put a \ backslash character in a string?
You can use the r before quotation marks in front of a string:
print(r"this is a backslash `\` ")
[4](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1619). The string value "Howl's Moving Castle" is a valid string. Why isn’t it a problem that the single quote character in the word Howl's isn’t escaped?
Because here, the string is using double quotes to encompass the string, allowing for usage of single quotes inside of it.

[5](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1620). If you don’t want to put \n in your string, how can you write a string with newlines in it?
You can use a multiline string with triple quotes.
```
print('''Dear Text

why wont my code work
Sincerely,
Failing student.''')
```
[6](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1621). What do the following expressions evaluate to?

- 'Hello, world!'[1]  e, since 0 is the first value and e is the second (1) value
- 'Hello, world!'[0:5] Hello -> since this is asking for all values in the list from e to 4, and stops at 5. This means values 0-4 where 0 is H
- 'Hello, world!'[:5] Hello-> same thing as above but it doesn't explicitly state where to start. So, it's asking the list "for all things less than the index of 5"
- 'Hello, world!'[3:] lo, world! -> For all things in the list after value 3, which is the 4th character.

[7](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1622). What do the following expressions evaluate to?

- 'Hello'.upper() HELLO, capitalizes it. 
- 'Hello'.upper().isupper() True, the values are all uppercase
- 'Hello'.upper().lower() hello, Converts it to upper using the upper method, then lower using the lower method

[8](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1623). What do the following expressions evaluate to?

- 'Remember, remember, the fifth of November.'.split() Since there's no parameters in the split method, I assume that the spaces and commas are segmented.
- '-'.join('There can be only one.'.split()) 
  The join method will join the spaces with dashes(-).
[9](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1624). What string methods can you use to right-justify, left-justify, and center a string?
ljust rjust and center methods
[10](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter6/#calibre_link-1625). How can you trim whitespace characters from the beginning or end of a string?

beginning is lstrip and end is rstrip.