
[1](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1215). Why are functions advantageous to have in your programs?
They allow other variables outside the local scope to manipulate it. 
After research:
it allows you to be modular with it, making it easy to replace and allows for reuse of said function. allowing it to be modular also includes easier abstraction, maintenance, and testing/debugging

[2](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1216). When does the code in a function execute: when the function is defined or when the function is called?
A code in a function executes when it is on top of the [[call stack]]. (see 003.1) Defining a function only tells the program about a functions existence and describes the functions behavior, but the function only runs if it is invoked from somewhere within the program. 

[3](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1217). What statement creates a function?

def -> we have to define/create the function by declaring it's name, then writing what the function does. the syntax goes:
def ():
	parameters/statements
example:
def (Hello):
	print('Hello World!')
Hello
[4](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1218). What is the difference between a function and a function call?

A function is the behavior in which the program acts given variables/parameters and performs a specific task. Functions are used to encapsulate code, making them modular. See answer 1
A function call is used to invoke a function (execute it). 

[5](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1219). How many global scopes are there in a Python program? How many local scopes?
There is only a single global scope in a Python program, but as many local scopes as you want.

Better answer:
There is indeed only one global scope per Python program execution. This scope remains in existence until the script is terminated. Variables defined in the global scope are accessible from any part of the code in the same program, unless they are shadowed by local variables in function or other block scopes.

**Local Scope:** A local scope is created whenever a function is executed. Each execution of a function results in a new local scope being created. Variables defined within this scope are only accessible within the function itself and cannot be accessed from outside the function. Thus, you can have as many local scopes as there are function calls since each function call creates a new local scope.

[6](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1220). What happens to variables in a local scope when the function call returns?
The variables in a local scope poof from existence (destroyed).  This is how python handles memory usage. But, the variable itself is "returned" to the caller. Meaning, local variables (variables inside of a function) are destroyed, but their values can be passed on via return statements. 

[7](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1221). What is a return value? Can a return value be part of an expression?
In general, the value that a function call evaluates to is called the return value of the function.
so
def (fun):
	result = 1 + 1
	return result
print (fun())
2 <- this would be the return value of a function


[8](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1222). If a function does not have a return statement, what is the return value of a call to that function?
It returns the "none" value, which represents the absence of a value. For example, printing a string of text does not need a value assigned to it, this is where the none value would take place.

```
def function_without_return():
    print("This function prints this line but does not return a value.")

# Calling the function and storing its return value
result = function_without_return()

# Print the result
print(result)  # This will print 'None'

```

[9](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1223). How can you force a variable in a function to refer to the global variable?
If the variable is not assigned inside of the local scope (function), it will refer to the global variable.
This global variable must be assigned for the function to call upon the variable.
Take for example:
```
def local():

    print(ones)

  
  

ones = 1111

local()

print(ones)

```

if you want to declare the usage of global variables, you would do
global (variable)
```
def modify_global():
    global ones  # Declare that we use the global variable
    ones = 2222  # Modify the global variable
    print("Inside function:", ones)

ones = 1111
print("Before calling modify_global():", ones)
modify_global()
print("After calling modify_global():", ones)

```


[10](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1224). What is the data type of None?
null

[11](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1225). What does the import areallyourpetsnamederic statement do?

- python looks for the module "areallyourpetsnamederic".
- if the module is found, python loads it
- once loaded, we can do areallyourpetsnamederic.pet_name() for example. we can access the module content
- if python can not find it, it raises and 'Import Error'


[12](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1226). If you had a function named bacon() in a module named spam, how would you call it after importing spam?
import spam
spam.bacon()


[13](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1227). How can you prevent a program from crashing when it gets an error?

You can do the try: statement to navigate crashes.
==Errors can be handled with try and except statements==. The code that could potentially have an error is put in a [[try]] clause. The program execution moves to the start of a following except clause if an error happens.


[14](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/2e/chapter3/#calibre_link-1228). What goes in the try clause? What goes in the except clause?

==When code in a try clause causes an error, the program execution immediately moves to the code in the except clause==. After running that code, the execution continues as normal. The output of the previous program is as follows: